[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Power is the fundamental
ingredient of the human
experience.
And choice, it is
our great tool.
Let me give you a
very different idea
of what it means to be you.
We are creatures of energy,
residing in physical bodies.
And our power, our
energy-- your power--
is the substance that
fuels our bodies and lives.
And choice is the basic
expression of that power.
Choice-- probably something you
haven't given much thought to.
But our passion for personal
empowerment and self-esteem
is deeply rooted in
our desire to develop
a visceral connection to
the phenomenal power that's
contained in one active choice.
Now what do I mean when
I say choice is power?
After all, how
powerful can one choice
be in the whole
scheme of things?
Can you change the
direction of humanity,
or the quality of your health,
or the quality of your life
with just one choice?
Are you that powerful?
Well, I believe you
are, and that you
can change the direction of
your life with one choice.
That you are that
powerful of an instrument.
We are living at the
greatest turning point
in the history of civilization.
You know, it's a
privilege to be alive now.
It's a privilege.
And someday-- you know
that game people play,
and they'll often
ask, well if you
could live any other
time in history,
when would you live in?
So many people
say, well, I would
live during the
Egyptian era, and I
want to see how the
pyramids were built.
Or they pick these
momentous eras in history.
But me, I would go forward.
And I would want to read the
history books about right now.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
About what people
would write about how
we didn't realize all the things
we missed about this moment
that we are living.
All the obvious incredible
transitions that
were happening between fossil
fuel and solar awakening.
That's what's happening
to us and within us.
We are creatures of energy now--
energy.
We've crossed the
fossil rubicon,
and entered into the solar age.
And that solar age is as much
in us as it is around us.
We are solarizing.
And I mean that S-O-L-A-R
and S-O-U-L-A-R.
And we are actually
living in two dimensions
now, simultaneously--
the realm of energy and
the realm of matter.
And while that has
always been true,
the difference in this
moment is that we're finally
learning to navigate the
realm of energy and matter,
largely because physicists
and scientists have
gotten to the nuclear age.
They're coming
together with the world
the mystics have always
known about, like Buddha.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Buddha said change is constant.
It was one of his
great teachings.
And we are living
that truth now,
with greater and
greater immediacy.
I know when I was
growing up, we never
would think that something
that was going on in India,
or something going on in
Korea, or something going on
in Africa someplace could affect
us in Chicago or in California.
But today, if there is
a shift in something
that happens in North Korea, or
in Russia, or in South America,
it could affect
our bank accounts.
We could wake up with more money
or less money, just like that.
Because what we are learning is
the choice someone makes here
affects everybody everywhere.
Because all change is universal.
What affects one part of the
system affects the whole.
And all change is immediate.
You can't have a
partly broken heart.
Everything you do affects
the whole of your family.
Same thing within your
community, what is in one
is in the whole.
This goes for patriotism
and athletics.
So when our sports team
wins, it's our sports team.
They stand for all of us.
Now it's always been like that.
But in fact, we didn't have
the means to understand
that type of truth.
Part of it is because we still
live in the physical world,
where we want to see the
consequences of our choices
all the time.
And at the same time,
we are now living
in the world of energy,
where we are just
beginning to learn that the
energetic choices we make
may well be more powerful than
any of the physical choices we
make.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
An energetic choice
is responding
to an energetic hunch
or an intuitive hit,
as you might call it.
So when presented with the
physical data of a business
plan that looks
really good on paper,
you're energetic response
is saying don't trust this.
And you choose to
go with your gut.
Now realize the energetic
data is not presenting you
with a different plan,
but your intuition
knows that calculations
are erroneous, and designed
to disguise the small details
that your eyes can't see.
So having enough faith
to forgo the obvious
for what your energetic
sensory system is telling you
is essential for living
in balance and truth.
It was Jesus who said you
know a good mustard seed is
going to bring down a mountain.
That doesn't make any sense
to someone who doesn't
get the power of consciousness.
Because they'll take
a little mustard seed,
and they'll throw it at a
mountain, and they'll say,
well that's preposterous.
But Jesus wasn't talking
about physical power.
He was talking about
the power of a thought.
The power of a truth.
The power of a line of
consciousness, of a light.
The power that
Buddha's talking about.
The power of one clear
truth of one clear choice.
That we are this powerful
that each of our choices
is, in fact, an act of creation
that we set into motion.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Before the internet, if
you had said to someone
it's possible for you
to change and influence
the whole planetary
community by hitting one
button called Send--
that's how powerful you are.
That you could hit a button,
and send out a message,
and influence everybody on
the planet in three seconds.
You would never
have believed that.
It would be an
incomprehensible concept
that one little human being
could possibly reach the whole.
That's exactly how we live now.
You just hit the Send
button, and off a part of you
goes, into the energetic ether.
Connecting with
satellites, and then
downloading around the globe.
You don't even think
what a phenomenon
that is, that you are
connecting to this grid of life
at light speed.
But it's a duplicate of
how I tried to once explain
the power of a prayer.
That it's delivered to
your soul, just like FedEx.
So here's my point.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We are just now learning
that we participate
in the creation of our
realities, both personal
and collective.
And we are discovering
how that happens
through the power of our
thoughts, our emotions,
and our actions.
The nature of God is not to
lead you into blank space,
but to lead you into guidance
so that you can make a choice.
And you are always
being directed
to make choices that empower
you as a fundamental piece
of guidance, that it is against
your nature to make a choice
to disempower yourself.
What we are living now is
this profound transition,
like an energetic Renaissance,
where we are actually
witnessing the teachings of
Buddha, the teachings of Jesus,
these teachings of these great
cosmic masters manifesting
actually in technology,
where the internet is
a duplicate of the internet--
the way we are
connected to each other.
And that we need to
acknowledge that there's
no such thing as an
insignificant choice.
And by virtue of that,
every choice you make
needs to be considered profound.
That every choice is
an act of creation.
And that we need to have
a very different power
strategy with ourselves.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Everything you do is a
calculated power move.
You strategize about
what you should
wear, what car you should
drive, who you should
marry-- about everything.
We are drawn to power
things and objects
that represent or
symbolize what we think
is power, like big cars, or
bling, or designer clothing.
And while it's wonderful to
enjoy the bounty of life,
esteeming yourself is not based
upon the acquisition of goods,
but on your capacity
to protect and honor
who you are, regardless of what
you own, or where you live,
or the occupation you have.
The journey of
life is about, how
am I going to invest the
power of my life force?
In what ways can my life
enhance the lives of others?
And in a sense, we answer that
question hundreds of times
a day with every
decision we make.
There is nothing
small about you.
Every choice either empowers
you or disempowers you.
The choice to be in a
situation and think,
is this a crisis or not?
Is this a crisis or not?
Does it matter how I
respond in this moment?
Yes or no?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Of course it matters,
every choice matters.
If you tell a
white lie about why
you were late to work or bend
the truth about certain facts
and details that are important
for other people to know,
you need to realize that
these seemingly insignificant
negative choices
add up, and directly
affect your energetic
anatomy and eventually,
your entire well-being.
So how do you discern
the difference
between what empowers you and
what does not empower you?
First, I'm going to share with
you eight of the most important
power choices you can make.
I'm going to move these
through your biology
so that you have a biophysical
spiritual reference
point within you.
So that you have this sense
of breathing, feeling a choice
as it moves through
your bio spiritual self.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
A bio spiritual
reference point is
when you fully
understand that you live
and breathe with all life.
That the laws that balance
nature also balance you.
So if you're thrown off
balance, your whole planet
is off balance because
your body is your planet.
And everything
about your life gets
to work on bringing you
back to balance immediately.
For example, you may be
overtired, and need to rest.
And if you don't pay
attention to the signals
from your body telling
you to take a break,
you might get a migraine
that forces you to rest.
So making the choice to
listen to your energetic data
is a choice in harmony
with the law of balance.
So that you know the
moment you make a choice,
the power goes through you.
And a choice either empowers you
or it's going to take from you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Just by design-- just
because I know human beings--
you're going to look
to the outside world
and you're going to think
that I'm talking about choices
that are out there--
great, big, huge.
Like the choice to buy
a car, or get a house,
or move an elephant,
and I'm not.
All the choices I'm talking
about no one can see but you.
They all take place in the
world behind your eye--
every one of them.
Everything else is the
caboose on your train.
I'm talking about the engine.
This is the engine of your life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Here are the eight most
important power choices
you can make.
To not betray
yourself or others.
To live with
integrity and truth.
To know and live your values.
The choice to have a spiritual
worldview or practice.
To practice kindness
in your life.
To be reflective of
your personal actions.
To be of service to others.
And the choice to empower
others in your life.
So let's talk about each
of these just a bit more,
let's begin with to not
betray yourself or others.
Now that is great, big, huge--
great, big, huge.
Because it means that I will
respond to my inner guidance.
That I will live in--
here's the operative word--
congruently.
My head and my heart
will speak to each other.
Betrayal is a big deal.
Betrayal's a big deal.
Now what does it mean to say
to thine own self be true?
That's one of the most difficult
paths in life to lead--
to be true to yourself.
We start out in baby
steps because we think
it means to do what we want.
But it actually goes
much more to the core
of becoming an integris
person, of really beginning
the journey of self-knowledge.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
For example, you
make the decision
to tell the truth, no matter
what, and then comes the test.
You are asked a direct
question, do you
support what our boss is doing?
Or perhaps your
partner asks you,
are you really happy
in our relationship?
And now what do you do?
You cannot anesthetized a
commitment to the truth.
Once you have set yourself on
a course of becoming congruent,
you'll have to be
prepared for your world
to shift because it will.
Be honest about what
really motivates me.
Who I am.
What makes me do the
things that I do.
Like, who's really responsible
for what's going on here?
And I'll give you
an example of that.
When I was writing
"Invisible Acts of Power"
this one woman said
that she made the choice
not to follow her guidance
in this one instance.
She was a model, she was
working at a modeling agency.
And this young model, meaning
someone, like, two years
or three years younger than
her was new to the set,
came up to her and
said, do I look OK?
And she said to me,
this girl was beautiful.
She was stunning.
She looked gorgeous.
And I knew it.
She said, my gut instinct
knew she was fragile,
she just needed a
little self-esteem.
And she said and I felt that
guidance coming into me.
I felt it, I knew it.
And she said instead,
I looked at her
and I deliberately made
the choice to hurt her.
And I looked and I said
you're OK, you're OK.
She said I saw the life
drain out of her face.
She said, I've never
forgiven myself.
I'll never not see her face.
Know your values,
and live your values.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If you've made the choice to
have a spiritual worldview,
practice that worldview.
And you can tell when you
are violating these choices
because you'll feel yourself
losing power in your body.
You will feel it.
You will feel your body
losing force in your stomach,
in your solar plexus.
You'll feel yourself increasing
in stress and in tension.
Because we are one
huge ecology system.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We are spilling into the
truth of oneness backwards
by-- for example--
dumping our medications
down the toilet,
and thoughtlessly
polluting the whole ocean.
It is only through
our mistakes that we
discover that we are all one.
It's as if we cannot bear
to enter into that discovery
consciously.
Make the choice to do just that,
practice the view that we are
all one in your everyday life.
Make the choice to
practice kindness.
practice kindness,
you have no idea how
powerful that is.
That, in fact, a smile
could change a life.
And I have endless stories
about how one act of kindness
kept a homeless person
from committing suicide.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
But we often diminish the
power contained in small acts
of kindness, perhaps because we
cannot imagine their long-term
consequences.
We imagine that
assistance in life
should be big, dramatic,
financial, and immediate.
But the hidden
resource of grace that
resides like a small jewel
within every act of kindness
endures for that
person's lifetime.
You've given them
one more diamond
to carry within their soul.
And the power of
that endures well
beyond this moment in time.
But this truth is a
challenge for all of us
to absorb and appreciate
because we are so
driven by the need for
immediate solutions.
As a result of the history
we have with the kind of God
we have--
got to be careful with
this, but this is my point--
we've created a God of
productivity in the West.
We've created a God
of practicality.
The kind of God we like is the
one that when we say a prayer,
that prayer is answered
practically, and effectively,
and that it includes
a reason for why
we should do what we do.
So when someone has asked me, do
you have any prayers that work?
I need some practical
results when
I pray because I need to
see what's my highest good,
and what's my highest purpose.
And it better be practical, and
it better have a pension plan,
and it better make money.
Otherwise, I have got
no use for this God.
If I had to that person, well,
I got some guidance for you,
that the purpose of your
life is to learn kindness.
And I have it here
directly from God,
that that's the
purpose of your life.
Most people would
be so disappointed
that that was their purpose.
They would be so disappointed.
They would sit
down and say you go
and you ask again, because
this is just not good enough.
There's not enough
backbone here.
I need something where
the choices I make
produce a little bit
more glamor and glitz.
Because they can't possibly
comprehend that there
is power in subtle choices.
That there's power in that,
in fact, the more powerful
we become, the more
inclined we are
to make choices that are
invisible in their power.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You need to set
time aside each day
to think clearly and deeply
about the quality of choices
you make in your life,
including what motivates you,
what directs your
inner agendas, and what
the long-term consequences
are of your choices
upon the lives of others.
Think of what a
different world we
would have if everyone
lived by that truth,
that every choice
affects the whole
and therefore, I must account
to all life from my choices.
Though that is an
unrealistic goal,
still the practice
of reflection helps
us to realize that what
we do and think matters.
And therefore, we
must hold ourselves
accountable for the quality
of choices we make in life.
But eventually, the kinds
of choices that we make
are not about becoming seen
in order to be powerful,
but becoming reflective,
becoming congruent, becoming
of service.
Knowing that if I become
powerful enough in me,
that I can empower others.
That is, in fact, the
greatest choice I can do,
is to do what I can to empower
others because I am now
giving grace away.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now, I will tell you that nine
out of the 10 regrets people
have is because they couldn't
empower someone in their life.
It's because they
couldn't love someone
as deeply as they
wanted to love them.
They wished they had spent
more time with their loved ones
or had given
themselves the chance
to actually live their dreams.
They come to the realization
that the values motivating them
were worthless or artificial.
They weren't really values,
but ego-driven ambitions.
I've read so many--
as I'm sure you have--
these death bed
regrets that people,
if I had my life
to do over again,
I would wear purple hats,
and I would do this,
and I would love this.
And I think that if you
have to wait till your dying
to make the types of
choices you should
make when you're
alive and vital,
then you don't know anything at
all about how powerful you are,
and what you should be
doing in this moment.
That in fact, the
choice to forgive,
the choice to love deeply,
the choice to empower others
are the choices you
should strive to make.
To become that kind of
soul inside of yourself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
That this is really the vault
of sacred power inside of you.
When I think of
that journey that
compels us to keep
searching, what
are we always searching for?
We're searching for the
capacity to liberate ourselves
to be able to make
these choices in life
that are the most outrageous--
not outrageous by
financial means,
but outrageously
empowering of self
and others at the same time.
Because that truly, is the
ultimate spiritual path.
Thank you.